# How to get involved in progressive tech

It's a perfect time to build software for progressive causes. If you know how to build software, and you'd like to see our country and our world move in a more progressive direction - then this guide will show you how to do both at the same time. It's not just for programmers: anyone with good skills in social media, product management, design and usability, data science, devops, or IT can find something interesting to work on here. There is a huge ecosystem of technology which serves progressive causes, which we call progressive tech.

### About this guide

This guide is meant to help anyone with technology skills and an interest in progressive politics bring those two passions together in a cottage industry I call "progressive tech." The intended audience includes software engineers, product managers, devops and IT experts - in short, the whole range of skills involved in making software. On top of that, social media experts, data scientists, technology startup founders and sales people - anyone with those skills, and many others besides, can use this guide to find a place in the world of progressive tech. Data scientists in particular should take note of another excellent guide maintained by Annie Wang - [So You Want to Work in Progressive Analytics...](https://www.guide.progressivedatajobs.org/).

The guide is written by one person, [Shai Sachs](https://shaisachs.github.io/), without any involvement, support, endorsement, or other relationships with organizations in the progressive tech space. I spent quite a few years in progressive tech - working in various capacities at NGP VAN, and managing the API for the last four or so years during my time there. So the guide is more-or-less entirely a product of my own quirky observations and thoughts about the space. I've had some great suggestions and critiques from a few friends, but any mistakes or omissions are on me. Take it with a grain of salt, or more! But by all means enjoy it and feel free to contribute!

